### 1.1 Think About Time Reflection
As someone who views myself as a perfectionist, I’ve always had difficulty managing my time effectively. I feel like I must be under a perfect set of conditions to begin work, and once I do, it takes a lot for me to be completely satisfied with what I produce, so I continue to work and work to no end. To combat this, three techniques stood out most to me: pomodoro, tiny habits, and flow. “Pomodoro", another form of time boxing, will help me plan my time and work harder in smaller bursts, “flow" will help me identify goals and what success looks like as well as get me “in the zone” ready to work faster, and "tiny habits" will allow me to implement these new time management techniques gradually over time.

Time boxing will be essential for me. The idea is that a team agrees upon a period of time that they will work on something for. It is assumed that each team member will completely focus on this task during this time. All individuals will stop working at the end of the designated time period, and will then evaluate their progress/accomplishments. The team will then decide together if the goal has been met. For Phase 0, a pair-programming session is a natural time box, as it is usually a 45 minute - 1 hour long session and you only have your pair for that period of time. During this time, my pair and I will set goals for what we want to achieve by the end, work steadily toward that goal, and then evaluate if we’ve met it at the end. In Phase 0, I will personally use time boxing, specifically the Pomodoro technique, to break apart challenges into manageable chunks of time, so I never feel overwhelmed at the prospect of sitting down to complete a task.

All my life, I've set aside a period of time during which I know I can work without being interrupted and will eliminate all distractors. Basically, I’d lock myself in my room until something was complete and never set a time limit. I'd begin with no concept of how long something should take, and would work slowly and eventually allow myself to get distracted when I’d burn out. It’s not that my strategy doesn’t work, however, I know I can be more efficient. I know I will have to work and learn extremely quickly in Phase 1, so I know I need to have a better system than setting aside endless hours to complete a task.

Since I won’t be working during Phase 0, I know I will be tempted to get a lot of chores done outside of my coursework. The feeling of needing to get things done often distracts me because it hangs over my head. By employing tiny habits WITH the pomodoro technique, I will be able to tackle smaller chores throughout the day during my “break times” as I work through challenges (i.e. dishes, laundry, cleaning). If I do this right, I’ll be able to more seamlessly transition between things, which will be a great step toward becoming more efficient. Through tiny habits, I will complete chores with the following structure: After I work for 25 minutes on a challenge, I will complete ONE task that takes 5 minutes. The pomodoro technique will be important for me because it will force me to think about how much time a certain task will take and hold me to it. I should be susceptible to fewer distractions because I will have clearer goals on what should be completed in a given time.

During Phase 0, I will take a look at the coursework for the week when it’s released on Monday, and will map out which challenges I will complete on which days and at which times, taking into consideration the short, medium, and long designations we’re given and equate those to pomodoros. I will also map out the personal chores/tasks that need to be completed that week and fit those within the break times between challenges. I will execute these pomodoros each day as I have outlined above. I will make sure to schedule in meal times for myself as well as exercise/social activities. I will plan to leave at least one day on the weekend free of coding so I can clear my mind and recharge for the upcoming week. Scheduling will be key for my sanity. I will achieve flow and better enjoy this experience by tracking progress on completion of the tasks I’ve mapped out for each day and checking in with myself on how realistic the goals I’ve set are. I know it will be so satisfying to check off activities, so those small wins will keep me motivated and on schedule.

### 1.2 The Command Line Reflection
A shell is basically the inner workings of the computer. Up to this point, I have experienced this as physical files or windows on my desktop interface, but now I will actually use this to interact with the raw data within the computer and access the operating system. It is clear that typing commands into this is a much more efficient way to navigate through the operating system and find things. The shell is the command-line interface that you type commands into. The shell we are using is Unix. Bash is a common command language used to execute commands in the command-line interpreter. I found difficulty navigating through directories and files - it took a while to get used to moving up through the directories and making sure I was in the right one in order to execute my command. I spent the most time practicing copying (cp) and moving (mv) files, because it was hard for me to spatially understand where the files lived and where I needed to get them to move them without an error. I was able to successfully use all commands, and it seems like the most important were: cd (I was constantly moving around), ls (had to figure out what was present in each directory before I did anything), and man (if you forget a certain command, you can just look it up!).

- pwd: prints the working directory you’re working with
- ls: prints all contents of the directory
- mv: moves a file or directory
- cd: changes the directory you are working in
- ../: moves up in the tree to parent file
- touch: make an empty file - can change times on the files
- mkdir: makes or creates a new directory
- less: displays contents of file
- rmdir: removes a directory
- rm: removes a file
- help: looks up what internal commands do - this is the same as “man"

### 1.4 Forking and Cloning Reflection
To create a new repository, go to your profile in GitHub. Click the “+” next to your avatar, select “New repository,” then fill in information about your repo: name, public/private, any licenses, etc. Click the green button “Create repository” at the bottom to create it. To fork a repo, go to the repo link you have in mind in GitHub and click the “Fork” icon in the top right corner of the screen. When prompted, select your username in GitHub so you make sure to fork into your account. After you see a new screen with your username/repository, go ahead and find the link next to the HTTPS box and copy it. Now to clone this repo to your computer, open your terminal. Navigate to the directory you’d like to clone the repo to by typing “cd” and then the directory into your terminal command line. I had to create a new directory to keep all my phase0 files in, so I typed “mkdir phase0” and decided to store my clone here (in my new phase0 directory). Once you’re in the directory you want, type the command “git clone” and then paste the copied link from the forked repository on the same line. It should look something like this: git clone https://github.com/taylordaug/phase-0.git. This will clone the repo into your directory on your computer. Check the contents of the directory by typing the command “ls” to confirm your repo is now there.

Because we only had to use one git command during this exercise, I didn’t run into any struggles here. I foresee issues remembering these git commands, but know I can always look them up. Using GitHub to create repositories seems pretty straightforward - I found the site to be pretty user-friendly. My practice with the command line in exercise 1.2 really set me up to be able to navigate through my files and clone my repository to a directory on my computer very easily.
